Hi there. In this video we are going
to look at the diff command, D I
F F. And the diff command allows us
to see the differences between two files. Now
it does take a little bit of time
to kinda get used to the diff output,
but we're gonna look at some examples here
and see what we can find. But it's
useful if you wanna know what's changed between
two versions of a file or two files
in different directories or so forth. So here's
how we generally use it. Well, first of
all, let's look at some files that we
have here. We have a file called hello
dot c and I also have a file
called hello two dot c. And the only
thing different in these two files is there
is an uppercase o in this file here
and there is a lowercase o in this
file here. Now if I type diff and
we type hello dot c and hello two
dot c, we get the output that says
something weird here, we'll talk about in a
second. And then we have the line from
the the two lines that are different in
this case, the line from the first one
that's different and the line from the second
one that's different. And as it turns out
the c here means that, it's a change
from one file to the next. Okay? And
it turns out that from the first file,
which is the left facing angle bracket, is
changed to the second file both happen to
be on line five. That's what that means.
So it's pretty easy to say okay look
these are the two file lines that have
changed and, that's that's that. Okay? Let's look
at a different one. Let's look at hello
three dot c. Hello three has the o
here as well, the uppercase o and it
also has an extra line which isn't in
the first one which is comment line in
there. Now if we do the same thing
again, we say diff hello dot c and
hello three dot c, watch what happens. It
says, okay. It says there is, there are
two changes. Well, actually one is an addition.
On line three in the first file, which
is would be added at line four in
the second file, okay, or is added in
line four at the second file is this
comment. Okay. So from line three in the
first file, it's not there. We add it
in line. The second file, a comment is
there. Okay. In the five c six here
is the same thing as before, there's a
change on line five in the first file,
they've got the lowercase o and the file
line five and the second file it becomes
or line six rather because of that extra
comment line, it's the uppercase o in that.
Okay? Now it turns out that it has
to the way these work, there's add, there's
change, there's also delete. Watch what happens if
we do diff hello three dot c and
hello dot c. Watch what happens. Well, first
of all, says okay fine, at line four
in the first file which is now hello
three dot c. At line four, we would
delete that line and that would be at
line three in the original. Okay, that's what
that means. And then, the six c five
means oh, we at line six we change
the uppercase to lowercase which is in line
five in the first file. Okay, That's how
the actual diff command works. Again, it takes
a little time to figure out what it's
actually doing. The numbers here are relevant because
it allows you to automatically make changes from
one file to the other if you just
have the diff between them. So that's a
that's kind of a neat thing. And, by
the way, diff uses, generally, I don't know
if the diff we use is this exact
algorithm, but it uses the longest common subsequence
problem to figure out where there are, common,
like, differences in the file and, you may
have learned about that in CS one zero
six b. Thanks.